jekyll-multilingual
===================

A multilingual approach for Jekyll/Octopress sites

A detailed look into how this plugin works can be found [in this blog post](http://brendamour.net/en/2014/08/03/multilingual-jekyll-how-to-post-in-more-than-one-language/).
## Features

* Supports both multilingual and single language posts/pages
* Supports translation of static text
* Supports conversion of pages generated by third-party plugins (*Note: might not work in every case*)
* Supports ability to indicate a post was written in a particular language

## How to use the plugin

put the two Ruby files in your project's `_plugins/` folder.

**This plugin might not work with every third-party plugin out there.** You will need to adapt them to support multiple languages.

### Configuration

Add a `languages` array to your `_config.yml`

```
# The first language is the default language of your site
languages: ['en', 'de']
```

### Defining a language for your files

This plugin supports two kinds of posts/pages:

- Single-language (i.e. only written in a particular language, but still being shown in other languages)
- multilingual (i.e. one post/page per language.)

Single-language posts/pages have a primary language that is indicated by a tag in the post's/page's front-matter:  
`language: en`

Multilingual posts/pages define their language in the filename (any language tag in the front-matter is ignored):
    
- 2014-08-04-foo-bar.en.md (for posts)
- foo-bar.en.md for pages 
    
Of course this works with `.md`, `.markdown` and `.html` file extensions.

File lacking any of the above are considered to be written in the default language.

## Preventing a page from being copied into the language folder

When you use this plugin, you automatically define a default language (i.e. the first language in your languages array). Sometimes, you need a page that is created at the root of your site and not in the language specific subfolders. 

How do you do this? Simple: you set the language to "none".

**Example:** You're hosting a blog on github pages and want index page to be some kind of a gateway where visitor has to select language (or it's selected by JavaScript after analyzing Accept header reflected by some external server).

Steps:

1. Create `source/index-root.html` with custom welcome message and a header:

```
---
layout: root
permalink: /index.html
language: none
---
Please select language...
```

2. Create `source/_layouts/root.html` if needed (to include `head.html` and so on), example:

```
{% capture root_url %}{{ site.root | strip_slash }}{% endcapture %}
{% include head.html %}

<body>
	<div class="container">
	    <div id="content" class="inner">{{ content | expand_urls: root_url }}</div>
        </div>
</body>
</html>
```

## Inspiration

Full credit should go to the [Jekyll Multiple Languages Plugin](https://github.com/screeninteraction/jekyll-multiple-languages-plugin). The translation code is heavily based on their work (and a copy for the most part).

## Contributers

- [Patrice Brend'amour](http://brendamour.net)
- [Pawel Wilk](https://github.com/siefca)

## Contact

Feel free to ask for help, if you encounter any issues.
